# Image-Classification-on-CIFAR-10

CIFAR-10 is a classical dataset for image classification. It comprises 50000 training images and 10000 testing images in ten different classes. Each image has a size of 32 by 32 pixels with three colour channels. Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) are said to be the most suitable device to classify images , because image data consist of grid-structured input with strong spatial dependence. In this project, we aim to compare different CNN models  in the task of classifying CIFAR-10 images. Four well-acknowledged CNN models, namely AlexNet [Clairvoyance 2], VGG [Clairvoyance 3], ResNet [Clairvoyance 4], and DenseNet [Clairvoyance 5] are implemented, and the simplest Neural Network model of Perceptron [Clairvoyance 1] is set as the basis of comparison to evaluate the effects of CNN. These four kinds of CNN models have their own features and advantages. Generally, models with smaller filter sizes and deeper networks would lead to better results. Hence, we plan to study their merits and drawbacks based on empirical comparison. Also, there are more than one architectural settings for VGG, ResNet, and DenseNet. We selected four different architectures for VGG and Densenet and three for ResNet to conduct an internal comparison. In total, thirteen models will be compared in our experiment. Another objective of our research project is to study the impact of optimization strategies on model training. We will compare the training results of using non-adaptive or adaptive optimizer - Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) and Adam - and of whether early stopping is used. Based on our experiment results by far, the optimization setting is of significant importance to the performance of CNN models. There may not be an optimal optimization setting for all models, but we would like to have a basic evaluation of these optimization devices. Thus, this group project is a comparative experiment for a better understanding of the structure and training of CNN models.
